There are times
that we want to supply default values to the parameters of a function.
For example, let's imagine we want to write a function for calculating
the total interest. So here we have there parameters,
principle, interest rate and years.
And here's the formula, to calculate the total interest. Principle
times rate divided by 100
times years. Now,
let's call this function, let's imagine the principle is 10,000 dollars
rate is 3.5 percent,
and we want to pay this back over 5 years. So let's log
this on the console, so the total interest we have
to pay is just over 1700. Now,
what if we want to have default values for an interest rate and
the number of years. Well, earlier in this section about
operators, I showed you a technique like this. So rate
equals rate or 3.5.
So if rate has a value, if it's truthy,
we're going to use that, otherwise we're going to use 3.5.
So we can use the logical or operator to get a variable
a default value, similarly we can set
years, years or 5.
With this, if we exclude these arguments, those default values
will be used. So I'm going to delete these, save the changes,
and see we still get the same result. But starting from ES6,
we have a cleaner way to actually have the same thing. So instead of having
these logical expressions, we can set the default values
right here. So, we set to rate to 3.5,
and years to 5. And now we can delete
these two lines, save the changes, you still get the same result,
So we can see that setting the default value for function parameters
is really easy. There is just one caveat here, once you give a
parameter a default value, you should also give all the
other parameters after that a default value. For example, let's see what
happens if we set the default value for rate, but not years.
When we save the changes, we get not a number,
because we past 10,000, so principle is 10,000, rate
is by default 3.5 But years doesn't have a value,
so it's undefined. That's why the result of this expression is
not a number. Now what if we passed 5 for the
years? Well this is confusing for the JavaScript engine because it
doesn't know if 5 should be used for rate or
the years. So if I save the changes, you still
get the same result, not a number. Because in this case 5 is
used for the rate, but years is still undefined. Now there is
a trick around this, so, we can pass undefined for
the second parameter, and with this, rate will be set to
3.5 and years will be set to 5, now
we get the same result as before. But code like this is really ugly.
Somebody looking at this code, they wonder, what is this undefined? They have to look
at the function to figure out what parameter is associated
with undefined? So as a best practice, whenever you want to give
the function parameter a default value, make sure that that parameter is
the last parameter in the list, or give all the parameters after
that a default value.